# EPS264_Project
Code for the term project of EPS 264: Geochemical Thermodynamics during the Winter Quarter of 2026. 

This repository contains multiple files of code, but the two most important are exsolution_profiles_EPS264_022626.ipynb and BD_PIPE_ShiruiAltered.m. The former file is used to calculate the degassing paths using the VESIcal repository (Iacovino, K., Matthews, S., Wieser, P. E., Moore, G. M., & Begue, F. (2021). VESIcal v. 1.0.1 (1.0.1). Zenodo. https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.5095382). This can be run on the ENKI server or however you choose ot run ThermoEngine. Tutorials can be found at https://vesical.readthedocs.io/en/latest/install.html. The latter file is from Peng et al (2022), which numerical solves for the propagation of an interfacial wave between the core nad annulus of a volcanic conduit under the bidrectional (core-annular) flow regime. The original program has been altered to allow for new and more realistic density and viscosity profiles. 

A few CSVs are also provided to be able to run this code. The file named "usgs_kilaueachemistry_all.csv" is the one contains all of the chemistry data from Wright (1971). Furthermore, there is "muprofiles_1to5_030926.csv" and "rhoprofiles_1to5_030926.csv", which are used in the .m file to calculate the propagation of the interfacial wave. These files should be easily altered to take data for other CSV files to calculate the degassing paths and will generate their own normalized and filtered density and viscosity profiles. 
